# Liferay Portal

[Liferay
Portal](http://www.liferay.com/community/liferay-projects/liferay-portal) is an
open source enterprise web platform for building business solutions that deliver
immediate results and long-term value. Liferay Portal started out as a personal
development project in 2000 and was open sourced in 2001.

To get started, check out the project's community homepage at
[http://liferay.org](http://liferay.org)!

## Source Code

Liferay's main source code resides in two repositories:
[liferay-portal](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal) and
[liferay-plugins](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-plugins). Liferay has
additional repositories for the following:

* [AlloyUI](https://github.com/liferay/alloy-ui)
* [Documentation](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-docs)
* [Git Tools](https://github.com/liferay/git-tools)
* [Liferay Faces](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-faces)
* [Liferay IDE](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-ide)
* [Maven Support](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-maven-support)

Liferay Portal *releases* are built from the liferay-portal repository and
include select plugins from the liferay-plugins repository. You can build
Liferay Portal, its plugins, and/or any of the other supporting technologies
from their respective repositories.

## Quick Start

To get up and running quickly, *download* a [pre-built Liferay
release](http://liferay.com/downloads) and follow the [Quick
Start](http://liferay.com/quick-start) instructions. For more detailed
installation instructions, please read the
[Deployment](https://dev.liferay.com/discover/deployment) section of
documentation on the [Liferay Developer Network](https://dev.liferay.com).

If you wish to *build* core Liferay or its plugins, read the [CONTRIBUTING
guide](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.markdown).
It includes details on using the repositories and building the software.

## Liferay Developer Network

The [Liferay Developer Network](https://dev.liferay.com) \(LDN\) at
<http://dev.liferay.com>, is the best place to learn about Liferay. It has over
200 tutorials, guided learning, and much more.

LDN's [Learning Paths](https://dev.liferay.com/develop/learning-paths) are a
great place to learn how to develop on Liferay, especially if you're new to
Liferay development. As you gain experience developing on Liferay, you'll want
to dive into [Tutorials](https://dev.liferay.com/develop/tutorials) for details
on leveraging Liferay's technologies and frameworks. If you create apps that you
want to share or sell, you can read LDN's
[Distribute](https://dev.liferay.com/distribute) section to learn how to publish
the apps to the Liferay Marketplace.

The Liferay Developer Network is not only your home for Liferay development, but
it's also your place to [participate](https://dev.liferay.com/participate) in
making Liferay better. Come check out the [Liferay Developer
Network](https://dev.liferay.com). 

## Stay Connected

There are many ways for you to learn what's new in Liferay, get answers to
questions, and connect with other Liferay community members.

### Twitter

Follow us on Twitter:

- [@Liferay](http://twitter.com/Liferay) tweets the Liferay's latest
announcements
- [@Liferaydocs](http://twitter.com/Liferaydocs) tweets about new articles

### Blog

Read details on announcements, engage in discussions, and learn more by
following [Liferay's Blog Stream](http://www.liferay.com/community/blogs).

### Forum

Do you have questions? Ask them on our very active
[forums](http://www.liferay.com/community/forums)!

### IRC Channel

Tune into Liferay's Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channel.

Server: `irc.freenode.net`

Channel: `#liferay`

## Contributing

Liferay welcomes any and all contributions! Please read the [CONTRIBUTING
guide](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-portal/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.markdown)
for details on developing and submitting your contributions.

## Versioning

For transparency and insight into Liferay's release cycle, and for striving to
maintain backward compatibility, we make a strong effort to uphold the
versioning for our software as described in [Understanding Liferay's
Releases](https://dev.liferay.com/discover/deployment/-/knowledge_base/6-2/understanding-liferays-releases).

## Bug Tracker

Did you find a bug? Please file an issue for it at
[https://issues.liferay.com](https://issues.liferay.com) following [Liferay's
JIRA Guidelines](http://www.liferay.com/community/wiki/-/wiki/Main/JIRA).

## Professional Services

If you need professional consultation or help with Liferay and your business, 
check out the [offerings from Liferay, Inc.](http://www.liferay.com/services)
and its [partner network](http://www.liferay.com/partners/service-partners).

## Liferay Portal Community Edition License

This library, *Liferay Portal Community Edition*, is free software ("Licensed
Software"); you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the [GNU
Lesser General Public License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html) as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; including but not limited to, the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY,
NONINFRINGEMENT, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the [GNU Lesser General Public
License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html) along with this library; if
not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth
Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
